Updated by: Rob VandenBrink

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                   PROPOSED STANDARD
Request for Comments: RFC5905D                                Errata Exist
Obsoletes: 1305, 4330, 5905                                 R. Vandenbrink
Category: Standards Track                                   September 2019
ISSN:                                                                DRAFT



Network Timer Derby Protocol (NTDP): Protocol and Algorithms Specific

Abstract

The Network Time Protocol (NTP) is widely used to synchronize computer 
clocks in the Internet. This document describes NTP version 4a, Network 
Time Derby Protocol (NTDP), which is partially backwards compatible with NTP
version 4 (NTPv4) described in RFC 5905, NTP Version 3 (NPTv3) described in
RFC 1305, as well as previous versions of the protocol.

NTDP is created for a mobile platform, namely a Derby Hat. NTDP uses 
standard NTP protocols to obtain time from Servers. NTDP clients are meant 
to acquire time primarily using their 5 senses.

NTDP is unique in its output characteristics. When deployed on its intended
platform, time and date are displayed in analogue format. The analogue 
format is not prescribed, but the Reference Design for NTDP uses dial 
style gauges for the analog display, however arc style gauges have also 
been used in the development process. The critical criteria for NTDP is 
that time be displayed in a non-digital format.

NTDP is always implemented in local time, to facilitate calculation of time 
to Adult Beverages (TTAB) for local users. When implemented as an NTDB 
server, this implementation guidance should be maintained. Oops, I just 
said SHOULD in an RFC - I meant WILL be maintained. It is the 
responsibility of the NTDP client to associate themselves with an NTDP 
server in their time zone.

Protocol Versions:
NTP4	RFC5905		Network Time Protocol Version 4
NTBP	RFC5905B	Network Time Protocol - Ballpark
NTPC	RFC5905C	Reserved for IPv5
NTDP	RFC5905D	Network Time Protocol - Derby Hat

Introduction

Suggested Modes of Operation / Caveats in Further Development

Further development of NTDP will be focused on different analogue display 
formats. For instance, pumps could be used to vary pressure to display time. 
Piezoelectric mechanisms could be used to drive audio or visible displays. 
Note that for audio output, volume and frequency are both key 
considerations. Too much volume could potentially make hat unwearable.  
Too low a volume would make the time inaudible to any but the wearer of the 
hat. 

The use of hammers, especially to drive a Test Your Strength style 
carnival gauge is discouraged, as NTDP is meant for a wearable (on the head)
platform.

Heat is another mechanism that could be used for NTDP. For third party 
use of the output, this would need to be tied to a thermometer display of 
some kind. Note again that range is important. If the range is too low or 
too high, a temperature based implementation of NTDP can easily cause injury 
to the wearer of the hat. In addition, the use of open flame in temperature 
based implementations should be avoided, for that same reason.

Constraints and Considerations

Size Constraints

All implementations of NTDP are intended for deployment on a Derby Hat 
platform. This introduces a size constraint. All implementations must fit 
on or in a reference sized hat, and all implementations must result in the 
hat still being wearable.

Safety Considerations

As NTDP outputs are all analog, this means that usage by both the hat wearer
and any third parties should be considered in the design and implementation 
process.

For instance:

For heat based implementations, the temperature range used to represent the 
various time scopes must be kept to within temperatures considered safe and 
comfortable for the wearer of the hat.

Length of Open Flame (LOF) should be discouraged as an output format in 
most implementations for the safety of both the wearer and third parties.

Similarly, any pressure or hammer based implementations should consider the 
safety of the hat wearer. It is desired that the hat wearer should survive 
the noon experience.

Audio implementations should consider that all parties will need likely want
to use their hearing after experiencing the NTDP output. It is recommended 
that NTDP output be kept to within a range deemed safe. For instance, a 60-
70db range has been used during protocol development, and we are all still 
fine. If someone would answer that phone we would be fine anyway! Be sure to 
use accurate acoustic measurement equipment to define safe.

Usability Considerations

As NTDP outputs are all analog, this means that usage by both the hat wearer 
and any third parties should be considered in the design and implementation 
process.

For instance:

Audio implementations based on frequency should be implemented within the 
range of human hearing. NTDP is not meant for dogs or whales. Also 
consider the shortened audio range that most security professionals have, as
many are of advanced years, and most have damaged their hearing in any of 
several ways during mis-spent youth.

Audio implementations based on amplitude must consider that third parties 
will want to stay outside of the personal space of the hat wearer. 
Implementations should be in the 60db range (outside the hat) for optimal 
third party use. See Safety Considerations during both the design and 
implementation processes.

The use of NTDP as a Time Server

NTDP can also be used as a time server, as it fully implements the Ballpark
NTP (NTP-B) standard. Note however that the nature of the output should 
remain analog. For instance around noon is an appropriate output, as is 
time for a beer and why arent you at work?. Quarter after two is 
considered an appropriate output, but only if it is meant to represent 
everything from 14:05 to 14:25.

NTDP is referenced using a standard restful API, and will deliver 
approximate analog time to any web browser, curl, wget or similar tools. It 
is understood that multiple users making simultaneous requests will not 
receive identical results.

A simple HTTP GET request is the only supported call to the server, the 
response is a simple string in HTML format. Encryption is not supported for
 NTDP, but rate limiting may be implemented.

Authors' Addresses
  Robert VandenBrink
  Coherent Security
  119 Woodstock St N, Box 39
  Tavistock, ON
  N0B2R0
  CA

  Phone: +1 519 589 1881
  Email: rob@coherentsecurity.com 








